AI's Trillion-Dollar Opportunity: Sequoia AI Ascent 2025 Keynote

May 7, 2025
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9JBMnxuPX8

All right, my name is Packer Radio. I'm
a partner at Sequoia. Sonia and
Constantine and all of our partners at
Sequoia will be your hosts for the day.
Now, before we get into the real meat of
the day, me and Sonia and Constantine
are going to just share a few
perspectives on some of the things that
we've learned over the last year or so.
And we're painfully aware that we're the
appetizer, not the entree. I I got an
email from one of the founders that I
work with yesterday who said, "Oh, hey
man, I'm going to be a little bit late
to this thing. I'll probably show up at
like 9:35." I was like, "Well, that's
oddly specific. That's exactly when
Jensen comes on." And so, so look, we
get it. But we're going to share a
couple thoughts and then we'll get into
the real stuff. All right. First off,
some calibration. What do we think is
going on in the world of
AI? Simple framework that we use to look
at markets. What is it? The Don
Valentine question. So what? Why does it
matter? Why now? It may be inevitable,
but is it imminent? And then finally,
what now? What do we do? How do we take
advantage of this? How do we play to
win? And we've talked about each of
these in years past, but we're going to
update some of our thinking over the
next couple of minutes here. And I
actually I gota be honest with you, I
had a real banger on the what, but
Constantine delicately suggested that
telling a room full of AI people what AI
is not a great idea. So, we're actually
going to jump straight to the so what.
Okay, just for fun, who remembers this
slide from last year. All right, thank
you. Wonderful. Top row, cloud
transition. Bottom row, AI transition.
Left side of the page, yesterday. Middle
of the page, today. right side of the
page tomorrow. What does it say? It says
that the cloud at 400 billion of revenue
is bigger than the global software
market when that transition began. If we
reason by analogy, the market we're
going after in the world of AI services,
the starting point is at least an order
of magnitude bigger. The end point 10 or
20 years from now has a chance to be
absolutely
massive. Important point. Now, we've
actually updated our thinking. It's not
just the services market that AI has
gone
after. It's both services and
software. Means that both of these
profit pools are under attack.
We've seen plenty of companies that
start with software, gets a little bit
smarter, becomes more of a co-pilot,
gets a little bit smarter, becomes more
of an autopilot, and they actually
progress from selling a tool into
software budget to selling an outcome to
selling work into labor budget. Both of
these TAMs are up for
grabs. Okay, who remembers this slide
from last
year? Oh man, I'm a little sad. That was
only like three, four people. All right,
there's one more. All right. All right.
All right. Thank you. Don't be bashful.
You guys can raise your hands. Okay.
This layer cake represents the waves of
technology that have stacked up over the
last several decades to bring us to the
present
moment. There are two points to this
slide. One, AI is in fact imminent, not
just
inevitable. The precedent conditions are
in place.
compute,
networks,
data,
distribution, talent. We have all the
ingredients we need. So, we're ready to
go. Second point of this slide, these
waves tend to be additive and so the
opportunity is much bigger than it's
been for prior waves. It's also coming
much
faster. Now, I hate this slide. X-axis
time, Y-axis vanity metric. People use
this to justify all manner of sins.
Okay, but the observation is correct.
Things are happening faster and faster
and faster and faster than they have
before. But not a lot of people have dug
in on why. And so we just want to take a
second on. If you think about the
physics of distribution, you just need
three things. People have to know about
your thing. They have to want your
thing. And they have to be able to buy
your thing. That's it. Does anybody
remember that
logo? When the cloud transition got
going, nobody was paying attention. Ben
off had to do these crazy gorilla
marketing tactics to get anybody to pay
attention. AI is very different.
November 30, 2022, chat GPT comes out.
The entire world is paying attention to
AI. Middle column, these are the
combined monthly active users for Reddit
and the artist formerly known as
Twitter.
didn't exist at the start of the cloud
transition, barely existed at the start
of the mobile transition. Somewhere
between 1.2 and 1.8 billion people on
these platforms today. Not the only way
to find out about cool stuff, but a
pretty good way to find out about cool
stuff. Right side of the page, let's
imagine you listen to Benoff. There are
only 200 million people connected to the
internet. Today, it's 5.6 billion. It's
effectively every household and every
business in the world. And so, what does
all this mean?
means the rails are in place and when
the starting gun went off there were no
barriers to adoption. This is not an AI
specific phenomenon. This is the new
reality of technology distribution. The
physics have changed. Train tracks are
in
place. Okay, another slide from last
year. What do we do about it? Where do
we play to win? Two points on this
slide. Number
one, a lot of white space. Again, this
is a slide from last year. There's a
little less white space now. People are
starting to break out, but for the most
part, the opportunity is still wide
open. Point number two, these
logos represent the companies that got
to a billion plus of revenue. We don't
care about unicorns. We care about
revenue and free cash flow. Got to a
billion plus of revenue during prior
transitions. Most of them are at the top
of the page.
Most of them are at the application
layer. We have believed and we continue
to believe that the same will be true
for AI. The value is at the application
layer. But guess
what? You got
competition. We got a second scaling
law. We got test time compute. We got
reasoning with tool use and inter agent
communication that allows the foundation
models to get pretty far into the
application layer.
What do you do if you're a startup and
you're not building a vertically
integrated business? Go from the
customer back. Think vertical specific.
Think function specific. Deal with
complex problems that might require a
human in the loop. But this is the race.
This is where the value is going to be.
This should be top of mind for
everybody. Okay. How do we play to win?
All right. You come on. You guys can
laugh. This is a good one. All right.
How do we play to win? Well, we showed
this last year, so I'll presume you're
not laughing because you saw it last
year. So 95% of building a company in AI
is just building a company. It's the
same old stuff. Solve an important
problem in a unique and compelling way.
Get great people to follow you. All that
good stuff. The other 5% is AI specific.
And in the context of that race for the
application layer, there are a few
things to consider. This is the Leone
merchandising cycle. Our partner Doug
Leone, the goat, spent 40 years lovingly
crafting this little piece of content.
This represents everything you need to
take an idea in your brain and turn it
into a product in the hand of your
customers. Okay, that idea has to turn
into a product that has to be built by
an engineering team that has to be taken
to market and sold and supported. This
is the value chain. Bottom of this page
is the tech out point of view. Top of
this page is the customer back point of
view. That's how you can build moes
across the entire value chain. Your
customer is not sure what they want out
of AI. You can have an opinion. You can
give them an end toend solution that
just solves the problem as opposed to
throwing a tool over the fence. You can
build data flywheels with the usage data
of your own product. That's something
that nobody else has. You can be of the
industry for the industry, kind of like
what open evidence does for the medical
industry. You can speak their language.
Harvey sends lawyers in to talk with law
firms. And I got to be honest with you,
we wouldn't recommend Ford deployed
engineers, but you can do it. Tough way
to live, but you can do it. You can put
a big bear hug around your customers in
a way that foundation models probably
won't. By the way, we love foundation
models, too, but we're assuming that
most of you are not building foundation
models. Most of you are building
applications. Okay, I have two more
slides, then we'll hand it off.
So, we get asked the question a lot.
What do you look for in AI companies?
And again, 95% of it is the same stuff
that we look for in any company. Okay,
here's the 5% that's AI specific. Point
number one,
revenue. Vibe revenue can kill you.
Everybody loves five revenue. Feels so
good. Oh my god, we have so much
revenue. Go look at it. Okay. Is it tire
kicking or are you actually creating
durable behavior change? Okay. Oh, I
don't have the metrics to do that. Yes,
you do. Inspect the adoption, the
engagement, the retention. What are
people actually doing with your product?
And don't delude yourself into thinking
you have real revenue when you have vibe
revenue because it'll bite you. Okay,
the good vibes piece of this is
important, too. Actually, real quick,
Andrew Reed, are you in here? Vibe
check. How we doing?
How's everybody doing? I don't care
about you. How's everybody
doing? Impeccable. I heard impeccable
vibes. Okay, good. You need good vibes
with your customers. What does it mean?
Your customers have to trust you and you
have to earn that trust. Trust is more
important than your product at this
point in time where we are in the cycle.
The product will get better. If they
trust you to make it better, you're in
good shape. If they don't trust you to
make it better, you're in bad shape.
Point number two, margins. We don't
necessarily care where your gross margin
is today. The COGS component of that is
probably going to keep going down. You
know, cost per token is down 99% in the
last 12 to 18 months. That cost curve is
going to continue. those cogs are going
to go down. I know it's stepping up with
test time compute and all that, but
that's going to go down too. The price
component of that, if you are
successfully marching from selling a
tool to selling an outcome and you're
going up that value chain and you can
capture more of that value, your price
point is probably going to go up too.
And so your gross margins may not be
great today, but you should have a good
path to really healthy gross margins
over time. And then point number three,
data flywheel. Raise your hand if you
got a data
flywheel.
Okay, what business metric does that
data flywheel
move? Okay, I see less certainty. I got
good news and I got bad news. Good news
is if you can't answer that question, I
still love
you. The bad news is your data flywheel
is
Either you don't have a data
flywheel or it just doesn't matter.
It needs to tie to a business metric or
it just doesn't matter. And this is
really important because this is one of
the best modes that you can
build. Last
slide. Who can tell me how these two
things go
together? I'd be really impressed if you
can. It's not logical at all. All right.
Nature hates a
vacuum. There is We'll get there.
Nature hates a vacuum. There is a
tremendous sucking sound in the market
right now for
AI. All of the macroeconomic stuff,
tariffs and interest rate noise doesn't
matter. The rising tide of technology
adoption absolutely swamps any of the
volatility that you see in the markets.
Ignore it. Okay? There is a tremendous
sucking sound in the market and if you
don't get in front of it, somebody else
will because nature hates a vacuum. And
so all the stuff we just said about
modes and metrics and whatever
notwithstanding, you are in a run like
heck business right now. Now is the time
to go at maximum velocity all of the
time.
Thank you, Pat. So I'm going to use my f
my section to focus on what's happening
with AI right now. And we'll start with
a quick year in review both from the
customer back and from the technology
out. So first a year in review. Back in
2023 we showed this chart of the ratio
of daily to monthly active users for AI
native applications versus for
traditional mobile apps. And the
punchline at the time was that AI apps
had terrible engagement ratios. Hype
exceeded reality in the data.
We're very pleased to report that that
punchline has now changed dramatically.
It's been stunning to see, for example,
the daily month to monthly active ratio
for chat GPT climb the curve and now
getting close to Reddit levels. I think
this is extremely good news. It means
that more and more of us are getting
value out of AI and we're all climbing
the ladder together on how to weave AI
into our daily
lives. And sometimes that usage is good
and fun. I personally melted an
embarrassing number of GPUs trying to
jiblify everything. Uh but while the jib
moment was fun and it was viral, the
more exciting thing is all the deeper
things that we're just uh scratching the
surface of. So for example, advertising,
the ability to create stunningly
accurate and beautiful ad copy.
Education, the ability to visualize new
concepts with the snap of a finger.
Healthcare, the ability to diagnose
patients better with an app like open
open evidence. We're just scratching the
surface of what's possible. And as the
AI models become more and more capable,
the things we can do with them through
this front door become more and more
profound. Okay. Who here has seen the
movie Her? Okay. Uh, and we have Brendan
in the audience today. Um, we still
don't have AI scar Joe, but 2024 gave us
what I would call the her moment for
voice. And voice generation went from
almost there to fully crossing the
uncanny valley. I've had a few folks say
that, but keep your cards close to your
chest. Let's see if I can truly blow
your mind. You ever seen the movie Her?
Oh, yeah. Her classic. Walking Phoenix
really nailed that falling for your OS
thing, right? Makes you wonder what the
future holds.
Sesame's voice demo was incredible,
Brendan. I'm excited to see what you
build. And it's crazy how quickly the
gap between science fiction and reality
is closing on us. And it feels like the
touring test really just snuck up on us.
Actually, hat tip for that to to Jim Fan
who tweeted it and I stole it for this
presentation. So, hi
Jim. Um, finally, the breakout
application category of the year was
coding, which reached screaming product
market fit. Anthropics Claude 35 sonnet
dropped last fall, triggering a rapid
vibe shift in the coding landscape. And
people are now using AI coding for
really impressive things. So, for
example, this person vibe coded their
own docend alternative. And so whether
you're a veteran 10x engineer or
somebody who has no idea how to code, we
do think that AI is fundamentally
changing the accessibility, the speed,
and the economics of software
creation. From the technology back, the
bad news is that pre-training does seem
to be slowing down. We've scaled
pre-training by nine or 10 orders of
magnitude since the Alexet days, and
that means a lot of the lowhanging fruit
has been picked. The research ecosystem
is finding new ways to break through.
The most important breakthrough was
reasoning from OpenAI. We were lucky
enough to have Noam Brown from the
Strawberry team give us a preview of
what was going to happen with reasoning
at AI Ascent last year and this year
we're happy to have Dan Roberts in the
audience who's going to be giving
another talk on what's happening with O3
and reasoning ahead. But it's not just
reasoning, it's synthetic data, it's
tool use, it's it's aic scaffolding. All
of these things are combining combining
to create new ways for us to scale
intelligence.
Enthropics MCP created strong ecosystem
and networks and we're also excited to
see what that does to accelerate agentic
tool
use. So all of this bigger base models,
inference time reasoning, tool use, it's
all combining to create AI that's
capable of increasingly sophisticated
tasks. The meter benchmark is one good
quantitative uh measure of this. But I
think what's even more powerful is
talking to each of you about the types
of things that are only possible now
because of 03 or operator or deep
research or
sonnet. And then finally, a lot of the
most exciting technology innovation in
AI right now is happening at that blurry
boundary between research and product.
And I think the two breakthrough
examples of this over the last year were
Deep Research and Notebook LM. And we're
excited to have the creators of both of
those products in the audience with us
today. Risa and Jason from Notebook who
are creating a new company called Hu and
uh Issa Hulford from
OpenAI.
Okay, let's talk about where value will
occur in the AI stack. I remember
debating this question with my wonderful
partners at Sequoia at the time. I was
personally the the midwit in the middle
of this uh this chart saying like ah I
don't know about the GPG rappers. And I
remember my partners, Pat in particular,
were adamant that the value was going to
acrue to the applica uh to the
application layer. And I remember
thinking like, okay, Pat, sure, good
luck with that. Uh but having seen how
the last few years have played out, I
think you were right, Pat. Uh you belong
over here. Good job.
uh if you if you see where value has
been created, if you see companies like
Harvey and Open Evidence really creating
that customer back value, we very much
believe that the application layer is
where the value will ultimately acrue
and that the battleground is
intensifying in this layer of the stack
with the foundation models increasingly
competing
here. Okay, quick aside, the joke's
actually on all of us because the real
undisputed king of the stack who was
making all the dollars was the goat
himself, Jensen Hang, uh who we're
excited to hear from shortly.
Okay, back to the application
[Music]
layer. Uh we now think that the first
cohort of AI's killer apps has emerged.
Whether it's chat GPT, Harvey, Glean,
Sierra, Cursor, A Bridge, but there's a
whole set of new companies on the rise
across a very rich and diverse set of
end markets uh including Listen Labs,
including Open Evidence. We're excited
to feature many of you uh today.
Another prediction is that many of these
new companies will be agent first and
that the agents these companies are
selling will evolve from prototypes that
are often just pieced together today to
ones that are really robust. And we see
two paths that companies are taking to
build that. Uh path one orchestration
with rigorous testing and eval path two
agents tuned on endto-end tasks. And
we're excited to hear more on this from
both Harrison of Langchain and Issa of
OpenAI today. Our next prediction on the
shape of agent companies in 2025 is
vertical agents. Vertical agents are a
wonderful opportunity for startup
founders who deeply understand a domain.
And we see companies creating agents
that are trained end to end to excel in
a very specific workflow using
techniques including reinforcement
learning on synthetic data and user user
data to make AI systems very performant
at very specific tasks. And the evidence
we've seen so far makes us really
optimistic in security. Expo is now
showing that they have an agent that can
outperform human penetration testers. In
DevOps, Traversal is showing that they
can create an AI troubleshooter that is
better than the best human
troubleshooters. Um, same goes in
networking with meter and networking
engineers. And so all of this, all these
data points, they're early, but they
make us very optimistic that vertical
agents trained to solve a very specific
problem can outperform the best humans
today. One final prediction on agents in
2025. We're entering an abundance era.
code as the first market category to tip
will offer us a preview into what that
abundance era actually means. What
happens when labor is cheap and
plentiful? Are we going to get a bunch
of AI slop? And what happens when taste
becomes the scarce asset? We're excited
to see the continued progress of coding
agents and what that does to the
technology landscape, but also as a
harbinger for how other industries will
be changed by AI. I'll turn it over to
Constantine. Thank you, Sonia. All
right. Great job.
with you. All right, good morning
everyone. Thank you, Sonia. Thank you,
Pat. So, we just talked about really big
important topics. The so what, why does
this matter so incredibly much. The what
now, what's going on in the world, the
state of AI today and its immediate
future. Now, we're going to take a step
back. We're going to think through
predictions about what's coming in the
mid and long term. In this section,
we'll have three parts. We'll talk about
what we see as the major next wave.
Then, we'll get into the technology
needed to achieve that wave. And then
finally, we'll talk about what it means
for each of us, our day-to-day lives. A
year ago, AIScent was all about agents.
We were talking about agents and they
were just beginning to form into
businesses. The topic was really these
machine assistants that eventually we
predicted would come together as machine
networks. These machine networks are now
broadly called agent
swarms. They play a role in many of your
companies and are beginning to form into
a really critical part of the AI stack.
Agents working with each other, against
each other, collaborating, doing
reasoning with each other. In the years
to come, we think that this matures even
further into an agent
economy. An agent economy is one in
which agents don't just communicate
information. They transfer
resources. They can make
transactions. They keep track of each
other. They understand trust and
reliability. And they actually have
their own economy.
Well, this economy doesn't cut out
humans. It's all about humans. The
agents work with the people and the
people work with the agents in this
agent
economy. But in order to achieve that
very big important next wave that we're
all going to enter, we have a lot of
important technical challenges and we'll
talk about three of them. Frankly, this
room is going to be addressing those
three as as you build. Well, the first
is persistent identity. When when we
talk about a persistent identity, we
really mean two things. The first is the
agent itself needs to be persistent. If
you're doing business with someone and
they change dayto-day, you you probably
won't be doing business with them for
very long. That dramatically different
experience will take its toll. The agent
is going to have to be able to persist
on its own personality and its own
understanding. The second type of
persistence is understanding you.
Similarly, if you're doing business with
a person and they they don't remember
anything about you, they can hardly
remember your name, that's also a big
challenge to trust and reliability.
Now, we've been trying everything from
rag and vector DBs to really long
context windows, but everyone in this
room knows that there are still major
challenges in true memory and
self-learning on that true memory and
actually getting the agents to be able
to be consistent where it matters and
and only differ in the areas where they
should be
differing. The second major technology
shift is we need to have seamless
communication protocols.
Now the great news is everyone seems to
be focused on this now. But imagine
personal computing without seamless
communication protocols. No TCP IP, no
internet. We're just now building that
protocol layer. And there's certainly a
lot of excitement around MCP. It's so
great to see the big players
collaborating and working together to
come up with this is just one but a
series of protocols that are going to
allow for transfer of information,
transfer of value, and transfer of
trust. Finally, security. This is a
topic that's going to be on the rise and
is certainly on top of many of your
minds. If you can't meet the person
you're doing business with palm to palm,
face to face, that importance of
security and trust is even further
elevated. You can't with
agents. So, we're going to have an
entire cottage industry formed around
that trust, that security, and it will
be even more important in the agent
economy than it already is in our
current economy.
So, we talked about the technology
needed to get to this big wave, to get
to this agent economy. Now, let's talk a
little bit about what it's going to mean
for each of us. Well, first of all, it's
going to change our mindsets. And and
frankly, this room is already there on
what we're calling the stochastic
mindset. The stochcastic mindset is a
departure from determinism. You know, a
lot of us fell in love with computer
science because it was so
deterministic, right? You program the
computer to do something, it does it.
Even if that results in a sag fault.
Now, we're entering an era of computing
that's going to be stochastic. If you
ask a computer to remember the number
73, it'll remember that tomorrow, next
week, next month. If you ask a person or
an AI, well, it might remember 73. It
might remember 37, 72, 74, the next
prime, 79, or nothing at all. The point
here is that this is going to be
materially different thinking from what
we've done in the decades
past. Second change is a management
mindset. And this management mindset is
going to be all about understanding what
your agents can and can't do for you.
Everybody knows that being a really good
IC engineer is pretty different from
being a great engineering manager. And
this is going to be the transition that
most of the economy is going to make
into more complex managerial decisions
like blocking processes and giving
feedback. And I really hope it doesn't
result in year-end reviews of
agents. Let's try to avoid that. The
third major change for each of us is a
combination of the previous two. way
more leverage with significantly less
certainty. We're entering a world where
you can do more, but you have to be able
to manage that uncertainty and manage
risks. And in this
world, everyone in this room is
extremely well suited to thrive.
A year ago at AIScent, we talked about
this chart and we were talking about
leverage because we said individual
functions at an organization will begin
to have AI agents. And then we predicted
that these functions would begin to
merge. They'd cluster and entire
processes would be completed by AI
agents. We even made the prediction that
we'd have the first oneperson unicorn.
Now, that hasn't happened yet, but we
have seen companies scale faster than
ever before with fewer people than ever
before. And we do think we're going to
get to the highest level of leverage
that we've ever seen in this
economy. Eventually, these processes and
agents are going to merge. You're going
to have neural networks within very
large complex neural networks. A network
of these neural
networks. And this is going to change
everything. It's going to reinvent
individual
work. It's going to
rewire
companies. And it's going to recreate
the
economy. Thank you all for joining us.
We're going to have an amazing AI sent
today. And we're very grateful for you
being with us.